- [Narrator] In this lesson, we're going to create
our first JAX-RS resource.
To help us with this, you'll notice that I've added
the inventory item class into the project.
The class is annotated as a JPA entity,
because we're going to be using JPA in order to maintain,
some state within our JAX-RS API.
To get started with building our first resource,
we're going to right click on our package,
and then go to new and then you'll see JAX-RS resource
within the first menu.
If you click on that, we get the dialogue for building
a resource within eclipse.
And one of the nice features is that we can select
the target entity.
In this case,
our resource is going to be the inventory item.
So we'll go ahead and select that item.
And then we can proceed to name our endpoint,
I'm just going to go ahead and accept the default.
And then you'll notice that we have been provided
with a resource path of inventory items.
That's the end point where we can access our resource,
so we'll leave that in place.
The other thing that we have to select is what media types
our endpoint will support.
We're not going to be using XML, so I'm going to go ahead
and remove XML from that list.
You'll then notice that the dialogue can create stubs for us
so we can create different crud operations,
that will be exposed as endpoints on our resource.
Let's go ahead and select all of these options
in order to create them when we generate our resource.
If we move to the next screen in the wizard,
you'll see that we could build out a JAX-RS application.
We've already done that so we're going to go ahead
and click on skip.
This point, we can hit finish,
and our new JAX-RS resource is created.
Let's take a look at it,
you'll notice that the path annotation has been applied.
So this is going to be concatenated to our base URL
for the API in order to form the endpoint for this resource.
We are also supporting Jason,
both accepting it and providing it to clients of our API.
And then here you'll see some stubs that have been built out
that correspond with different operations for our resource.
So here, you can post a resource
to create a new inventory item.
Here you can get a particular inventory item,
we see a path parameter there with in the parameters
on that method.
And then if we just scroll down,
we'll see additional methods,
here is a method that is simply a get against
the base path for this resource.
And it's able to return the entire list of inventory items.
You see, we can do a put to perform an update.
And then there's the delete annotation that allows us
to remove a resource.
So let's make a couple adjustments here,
just so we can run a small example.
You'll notice that defined by ID method
is returning a inventory item
based upon the ID which is provided as a path parameter
to this endpoint.
Currently, that item is going to be null, so let's go ahead
and we're just going to use the new operator
and the constructor to create an inventory item.
And we can do that real simply will just make it static
and will say it's going to mittens
and we have a 100 mittens.
Okay, so that's in place.
Now we can go ahead and start our application.
So I'm just going to right click on our ear,
go to run as and then run on server.
And we won't be accessing our API through
the application this time.
Instead, we're just going to be issuing a get.
So I'm going to grab this URL,
and then we can head over to the browser.
And within the browser,
we can send the get request to our JAX-RS API.
And we just have to construct a request that will cause
the appropriate endpoint on that resource to be invoked.
So you'll remember that hsports forward slash API
was our base path.
And then we had the inventory items path to access
the inventory items resource
and then we had to provide a path variable.
In this case, I'm going to specify one.
And you'll notice that we get Jason back
from our JAX-RS API.
So that's a look at how to create a resource
on a JAX-RS web service.